# NoteApp
The Note App helps a user to save notes into their Android phones. The basic structure of the App is based on MVVM Architecture. A brief explanation of its components is given below:

•	Activity: The App only contains one Activity, which only has been burdened with two operations: 
1. to display Home Fragment UI 
2. to perform returning back operation from one fragment to another.

•	Fragments UI: The App contains two fragments, Home Fragment and Main Fragment.

Home Fragment contains a RecyclerView which displays the saved Note to the User and a Floating Action Button that takes the user from Home Fragment to the Main Fragment, to input the data.

Main Fragment contains Two EditText views, one to enter the Title of the Note and the other to enter Note itself. Each note has been given an autogenerated ID number which can be used to perform various functions such as Add, Update & Delete etc. It also contains a Floating Action Button which upon clicking hand overs the newly entered Note to the ViewModel to be added into the database and takes the user back to the Home Fragment.

•	Navigation: The App contains various Android Jetpack’s components one of them is called Navigation component. It has been used to navigate and pass arguments between the two fragments.

•	Room: Another popular Jetpack’s component is Room persistence library. It provides an abstraction layer over SQLite and helps us to save the data locally on the phone. The three major components of Room are Entity, DAO and Database.

Entity: it represents a table within a database. In this app we have only one entity which contains three fields, ID, Title and Note.

DAO:  Data Access Object (DAO) contains the methods used for accessing the database. In this app we have used query, insert, update and delete methods to perform various operations on the given data.

Database: gives us the single instance of the database in order to perform operations on the data.

•	View Model: is part of the Lifecycle library which is another amazing component of Android Jetpack. There are three reasons to use ViewModel in this App.
1. To handle configuration changes
2. To observe the change in the LiveData object
3. Since we cannot perform database queries on the MAIN thread, we need coroutines to perform these actions in the background. For this purpose, we use ViewModelScope to run the coroutine in order to perform various database related actions such as Add, Update and Delete.

•	Repository: A repository class abstracts access to multiple data sources. The repository is not part of the Architecture Components libraries but is a suggested best practice for code separation and architecture. Since there’s only one data source in this App, which is our database, so in this case it is being used to communicate with DAO which execute corresponding SQL queries.

•	RecyclerView: It is being used Inside Home fragment. It gets data by observing the LiveData variable given in ViewModel. It displays data into Three Staggered Grid Layouts. Each of these Layouts also known as Itemviews can be clicked on and gets updated in the Main Fragment.

